I was born deaf, and I attended a school for the deaf.
Later, I attended college.
While I was there, I noticed that my vision was deteriorating
and I couldn't understand why.
I was informed that I was going blind.
I was stunned.
I was also given an article, and in the article,
I noticed one sentence that said,
deaf blind people are the loneliest people in the world.
I was devastated.
Being both deaf and blind is challenging.
I've had to learn how to live independently,
but the most important thing that I've learned
is learning about Jehovah, the true God.
Some people might imagine that a deaf blind person
would be too limited to serve Jehovah fully.
That's far from the truth.
Let me give you some examples of my service.
Some of the ways that I support the congregation
are by attending meetings, being regular in service.
Sometimes, I can be helpful in training others
how to be more effective teachers.
I often join others on their Bible studies.
I've been able to pioneer for many years,
and this is something that I really enjoy.
Over the years, my husband and I
have had the opportunity to preach in many countries.
In some of the countries,
the deaf ministry was just getting started.
For example, we went to Honduras in Central America.
They only had two small groups.
We first went for a few months,
then returned and stayed for a year.
What a great experience to participate
and see the growth in the field.
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic,
I was accustomed to being a self-sufficient person.
For example, I could go out on my own with my guide dog.
We could go to the Kingdom Hall to meet the brothers and sisters.
But then, COVID-19 hit.
And I was stuck at home, isolated.
While it's true that we still had meetings
and service arrangements on Zoom,
it wasn't easy.
The only person who could interpret for me was my husband.
No one else.
It was tough.
He was exhausted.
We both were.
It was something we had to endure.
In time, when it became safe enough,
a few of the brothers and sisters volunteered to come
and help interpret.
That really built me up.
I could finally have direct contact with my friends.
I was thrilled.
I also receive a lot of support from the congregation.
There are many willing volunteers to tactile interpret for me
at the meetings.
That gives me joy.
I always know that if I have a problem,
I can share my thoughts and feelings with others.
They will listen and support me.
No matter what the future brings.
I remember the scripture at Isaiah 41-10.
It says,
Do not be afraid for I am with you.
I know that Jehovah encourages me.
He will help me.
I don't have to worry.
While it's true that I'm deaf and blind,
I'm not one of the loneliest people in the world.
I'm a happy person because I have many friends.
I have the joy of helping others to learn about God.
And I have the best friend ever.
Jehovah.